feat(Portal): Remove mention of Portal from documentation part 5 (#1714)
bonitasoft/bonita-doc: modules/ROOT/pages/single-sign-on-with-oidc.adoc

> Here some details about the Bonita OIDC module,

Reviewer: Here some details => Here are some details

Author: Done

it is composed of:

> * A servlet filter that intercept all the requests to Bonita Application pages

Reviewer: that intercept => that intercepts

Author: Done

====

> Bonita `username` should match the `prefered_username` or one claims returned by the OIDC provider in the JWT token in the response.

Reviewer: I dont get this phrase....

Author: Would need your input on this one as well @abirembaut

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `username` attribute of Bonita user accounts should match one of the _claims_ of the JWT token returned in the OIDC provider response (by default the `prefered_username` is used but you can change the configuration to use another _claim_).
```
is it clearer like that ? I think so.

Reviewer: yes :) thank you!

>  If some users need to be able to log in without having an account on the IdP, you can authorize it by activating an option in the file `authenticationManager-config.properties` (see 2. below). Users will then be able to log in using the Bonita login page (`/login.jsp`) provided they have a Bonita account and their password is different from their username. +

Reviewer: provided they have a Bonita account and their password is different from their username. => with the provided Bonita username and a password that is different from it.

Author: Um, the username is not provided, I think provided in this phrase means "if"

Author: I'm guessing I can close this one

Make sure to link:multi-tenancy-and-tenant-configuration#toc2[set the right tenant admin username].
 It is recommended to also replace the value of the passphrase (property `auth.passphrase`) which is used by the engine to verify the authentication request.
 The value must be the same as in the file *bonita-tenant-sp-custom.properties*. +

>  If you need users to be able to log in without having an account on the IDP, you can authorize it by setting the property `oidc.auth.standard.allowed` to true. Users will then be able to log in using the Bonita login page (`/login.jsp`) provided they have a Bonita account and their password is different from their username. +

Reviewer: provided they have a Bonita account and their password is different from their username. => provided they have a bonita account and their password is different from their username.  => as long as they have a Bonita account and their password is different from their username.

Author: Ok, this makes more sense

 ** `jwt-access-token` indicates if the access token is a JWT. If false, it will be considered by Bonita OIDC module as an opaque token and its validation and retrieval of the logged in user principal name will be delegated to the userInfo endpoint (see `user-info-url`). This property is specific to Bonita OIDC module and is not supported/documented by Keycloak.

>  ** `scope-values` can be used to set the value of the `scope` parameter sent to the OIDC provider in the authentication request. The scope value `openid` is automatically added if it is no present, but you can add other scope values like `email` or `profile` depending on you OIDC provider configuration and the claims you need in the JWTs to match Bonita username. This property is specific to Bonita OIDC module and is not supported/documented by Keycloak.

Reviewer: depending on you OIDC provider => depending on your OIDC provider

Author: Done

>  ** Some OpenID Connect providers do not support having a pattern of valid redirect URIs. It is the case with Google's for example. With those providers you can use the `state` parameter to pass the target URL (the URL you initially requested and want to be redirected to). In order to do that set the property `save-target-url-in-state` to `true`. When you do that, the redirect_URI query parameter will always be the same. Its default value is the path `/bonita/keycloak` on Bonita server, but you can set a different value using the property `redirect-uri-path`. Make sure this URL is part of the valid redirect URIs in you OIDC provider configuration for the Bonita client. When `save-target-url-in-state` is set to `false` or not present, the `redirect_URI` query parameter is used to save the target URL. Those properties are specific to Bonita OIDC module and are not supported/documented by Keycloak.

Reviewer: of valid redirect URIs => of valid redirecting URIs

Reviewer: In order to do that set the property => In order to do that, set the property

Author: Added

 ** the `ssl-required` property value may need to be changed if Bonita Runtime and the IdP are not both accessed via HTTPS. Possible values for this property are: `all`, `external`, and `none`. For `all`, all requests must come in via HTTPS. For `external`, only non-private IP addresses must come over via HTTPS. For `none`, no requests are required to come over via HTTPS.
 ** the `principal-attribute` value indicates the OIDC ID Token attribute/claim (`preferred_username`, `sub`, `email`, `name`, etc...) to use to be considered as user identifier in the client application. It should match the username in Bonita.
 ** `public-client` needs to be set to `false` if the OIDC provider requires the client requests to be authenticated (with a client secret for example). In this case you also need to use the `credentials` property. If this property is set to `true`, then no client Authentication header will be sent to the OIDC provider.

>  ** `enable-cors` is required only if you wan to be able to use Bonita REST API from a web application located on a different domain from your Bonita installation's. It comes with additional options `cors-max-age`, `cors-allowed-methods`, `cors-allowed-headers`, `cors-exposed-headers`. You can check Keycloak https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/securing_apps/#_java_adapter_config[client adpter config documentation] for more information.

Reviewer: `enable-cors` is required only if you wan => `enable-cors` is required only if you want

Author: Added

More configuration options can be found in https://www.keycloak.org/docs/latest/securing_apps/#_java_adapter_config[Keycloak official documentation]
====

> If your Identity Provider is correctly configured (see the section _Configure the Identity Provider_), try to access any Bonita Application page, an app page or a form URL (or just `http://<host>:<port>/bonita[?tenant=<tenantId>]`) and make sure that you are redirected to your Identity Provider to log in (unless you are already logged in). +

Reviewer: If your Identity Provider is correctly configured => Once your Identity Provider is correctly configured

Reviewer: last change on this PR :D

Author: Done

====

> If your Identity Provider is correctly configured (see the section _Configure the Identity Provider_), you are done.

Reviewer: If your Identity Provider is correctly configured (see the section _Configure the Identity Provider_), you are done. => Once your Identity Provider is correctly configured (see the section _Configure the Identity Provider_), try to access any Bonita Application page, an app page or a form URL (or just `http://<host>:<port>/bonita[?tenant=<tenantId>]`) and make sure that you are redirected to your Identity Provider to log in (unless you are already logged in). +

Reviewer: I proposed a mix between the 2 phrases. "you are done" didnt seem appropriate.

Author: I added this.

Then you can try to access any Bonita Application page, an app page or a form URL (or just `http://<host>:<port>/bonita[?tenant=<tenantId>]`) and make sure that you are redirected to your Identity Provider to log in (unless you are already logged in). +

> Note that if you try to access `http://<bundle host>:<port>/bonita/login.jsp`, then you won't be redirected to the OIDC provider's authentication end point since this page needs to be accessible in order for the tenant administrator (or another user if you set the property `oidc.auth.standard.allowed` to `true`) to be able to log in without an account on the Identity Provider.

Reviewer: in order for the tenant administrator  =>  for the tenant administrator

Author: Added

== Configure logout behaviour

> If your Bonita platform is configured to manage authentication over OIDC, when users log out of Bonita Runtime, they do not log out of the OIDC Identity Provider (IdP).

Reviewer: above, with CAS,  it was mentionnes that you do get log out. does the system act differently depending on the identity provider?

Therefore they are not logged out of all applications that are using the OIDC provider.
To avoid this, you have two options :

[discrete]
==== Hide the logout button of the Bonita Layout

> This is the most commonly used solution. Users are logged in as long as they don't close their web browser (unless their session times out).

Reviewer: Users are logged in as long as they don't close their web browser (unless their session times out). => Users are logged in as long as they don't close their web browser and the session does not time out.

Author: I added this with a previous comment

[discrete]
==== Authorization Code Grant

> Those scenarios work the same way as when you login into Bonita Runtime except, in this case, it is the client application that uses Bonita REST API which needs to trigger the authentication process by calling the OIDC provider authorisation endpoint with Bonita OIDC client as `client_id`. The rest of the scenario is similar to what is described in the xref:#oidc-overview[OIDC Authorization Code Flow schema]. +

Reviewer: provider authorisation endpoint => provider authorization endpoint

Author: Done
